e
[Music]
look
oh
[Music]
interesting
some tension
before that home court
of actually when it's done this
way it still feels
unresolved oh I guess it's tension the
entire way cuz it's just
[Music]
and then we resolve
on that makes
sense you get into that mode where if
you play the same chord all the time
you're thinking oh that's the key it's
in it's in this
key it's right here but no cuz this
chord wants to go down
down down down not Miner
go tension tension tension like it just
wants to fall it's a high energy State
it's like when you place a a
marble on a table and it just wants to
fall reach a a lower point of
energy
higher still
high and
then that's when it's on the
ground it's a nice feeling but sometimes
it's nice when there isn't resolution
either
like this is kind of an unstable cord
but it kind of feels nice to linger
there it's
like I don't really know where this is
going but it feels kind of nice to just
sit here
that
modulation feels more Bitter Sweet gives
a new context to that cord that we're
staying on so we know that cord's there
now we're like okay that one's kind
of sad feeling then we go back to this
it's like well I remember liking being
here I like being here but now I know
there's that sad cord lurking around the
corner and it's like now this cord feels
kind of sad cuz it's
like I know the other one's over there
cuz then it
goes oh it's not not quite the
same we're a little a little different
[Music]
back
up we can go and take this note this
little fluttering feeling and go
[Music]
and then we go down we
go it's like oh that one's heavy
[Music]
and Cinders that cord how interesting
how interesting that one's not sad that
one's
like it doesn't want to fall down it
wants to go up
over
here how
interesting how
beautiful it's a journey or go
[Music]
oh that feels so good oh you got to love
that oh you got love that it's like
there's so much tension just you don't
know where it's
going and you hear that resolution it's
like it's
beautiful there are reasons for these
things
I like that tension or like that
uncertainty of where that's going and
then we
say well we can keep going we can find
resolution to
that you can make we could we could try
this a little bit jazzier as well so
instead
of just hanging on this chord and then
this chord then we can go will this be
right no
okay I
think okay let's try that let's
[Music]
go and what's fascinating about that is
now because of that we've actually
changed where the home base chord
feels originally it was this
one but because of that little Jazz
thing thing we
[Music]
did well I guess it still resolves on D
but you can resolve it on on G if you do
it right problem is a lot of the times
I'm
like I'm not really thinking about the
notes I'm playing I'm just like I know
the shapes that my hands like to
do so that's interesting
[Music]
for those of you who don't know I
actually I I've never had piano lessons
and I'm doing everything by ear so I
tend to [__] up a lot until until I have
like the muscle memory for
something remember the last stream I did
I was trying to trying to play Fish
whisper and I keep forgetting that like
sort of
[Music]
I keep forgetting that second chord like
it doesn't stick in my head what the
chord shape is with my hands this one's
[Music]
easy there we go there we see
easy I don't I don't always remember
that I can remember the first one but
then it's like can I arrive there
properly
um I love that
progression is it feels very um it feels
like you're underwater I think the
reason why it feels like that is because
there's this anate sense of beauty of
the ocean but also there's a bit of
mystery and a little bit of fear the
ocean's kind of
scary so you have that warm chord and
then there's this
sort of Uncertain sort of curious sort
of
mysterious cord that
happens this one this one's a chord
where I feel like if you hear it you're
like really torn it could go up or it
could go
down which I think is the
point it's worth mentioning that when
I'm writing music I don't actually think
of things this way when I'm writing them
but after the fact then I'll be like so
why did that sound good to me and why
did that feel contextually sad like okay
I think that makes sense that makes a
lot of
sense I'll play my favorite
chord this is my all-time favorite chord
it's let you play it all once like
this you'll hear this chord a lot in my
music sometimes it's in this key
sometimes it's in a different key this
is my favorite chord and sometimes what
I like to do is voice it so that we have
the fifth one octave below or two
octaves below so we go here and then
over
[Music]
here or maybe we can even do one more
octave
lower that's that's a really nice
chord I'm I still don't really know why
it's my favorite chord I don't even know
what it's
called if anyone if anyone who's into
music theory knows what this [__]
chord is called it's a G sharp dsharp
octave up and we go
FG a sharp c
d so if anyone knows what that chord is
feel free to tell me I love
it another one is this one
[Music]
I love really dense Jazz chords like if
you tell me to play like a normal Triad
maybe voic with the lower on the lower
octave it's
like I guess I guess this is fine I
guess this is fine if I have to play
these three notes only I guess it's
fine it's not a C major thank you I
appreciate it
oh God there's sans's undertale
what the
[__] oh I don't want this um
hi Sans
[Music]
um i
s I don't think we were waiting for you
but like it's great that you're here I
think P we haven't been waiting don't
lie to
him wrong with
you thank you s
I'm glad you like
incid it's not my best song but I
appreciate it I appreciate it my best
song is actually um a seductive turtle
from Winters end
2013 so you're
wrong I think you notice when I play
piano as well is I tend to start on this
G Shar
thing um and then kind of move around
here cuz I can get a good idea like
instruments and kind of uh how they
sound with a different chord structure
all the way
through um so that's that's a that's a
habit of mine is just I'm just going to
play this chord you have to deal with it
you just have to you just have to deal
with that chord all all the time for me
it's like I promised I can play other
chords I just really like this
one
did did my computer just give me a
thumbs down
did did you guys see that or is that
just on my
end guys I'm really
scared um let's try this thumbs up you
like
that
okay um
um
so
okay that was really
scary I'm like in shock that was
strange
okay
right that really shouldn't have thrown
me off as much as it did where am
I I'm here I'm streaming I'm playing
piano talking my piano talking my
cords and then the then the thumbs down
then the thumb down thumbs down
came um God is mad at me [__] off god
freak
um how about a C
major right everyone loves a C
major I was trying to do the the classic
but then I did something Jazzy on
accident that's the problem with playing
by ears I don't always know what I'm
doing even if it sounds good like that
sounded great but that wasn't what I was
trying to
do
anyway you think about E
major that's E
major so when I hear an E major this
chord my brain's like that needs to go
down One
Step ah now that's a chord I like e
major standard it's whatever but
whatever this is that's that's my that's
my thing I like that one so from here to
here that's that's when it gets
interesting for
me like that's okay
but sounds nice
okay but if we're going to do three
notes that's a pretty nice
chord which is an E major of
Swords what's nice about one of these
like you just have your one note down
here you have two notes up here and then
modulating these two in different ways
sounds interesting when you have this
sort of low drone so it's
[Music]
like my brain wants me to go from to
here
to to here and un the
scary
oh I like that
chord I like that one a
lot something sinister about it but
there's it's it's warm it's it's sort of
it's inviting in a really weird
[Music]
way it's not quite as dissonant as it
could be we can add like
a add this one here and then we get
[Music]
something well if we move from here to
here that sounds
[Music]
azzy it's like this chord is scary
skeleton in the Mansion Haunted Mansion
and then you go down here and it's like
scary skeleton with a
saxophone you know what I mean it's like
what the [__] he's getting off with that
thing he's going crazy because scary
skeleton skeleton with a really good
sense of saxophone playing
damn it is it is Sans sans's going crazy
with this
cord and then let's can can my hands
move
here well that's just jazzing again
[Music]
I don't know what that was but that that
was that was just whatever my brain felt
like doing I like it
[Music]
here's here's a progression I've been
thinking about a lot is this one where
you go with this
[Music]
like I don't know what what what this is
really called but in my brain this is
the
Bowser's sky ship type [__] beat type
beat type [__] beat where you
have this and you transpose it all up by
one so you go
this is this is the Bowser sky ship type
beard you know what I mean it's
like it's menacing but it's like Jazzy
that's kind of just the Bowser Bowser
Style
[Music]
oh now that's too dramatic when you add
that next
one too dramatic too cheesy we have to
stick to the to the guns on that
one too hopeful too happy
when I was really little I think cuz I
was I started Ed playing piano when I
was about 5 or
6 and then I started writing music when
I was about 7 or
8 the thing I Lov to do the most around
that time when I first started writing
music was I'd pick out like a
Triad but then I would like obviously I
can do this with one hand now my hands
are so small then and so what I like to
do is I like to take these fingers and
just do
[Music]
so one of one of the earliest music I
wrote as a child just revolved around
like taking these Triads and
[Music]
like that cuz I didn't really know how
chords worked but no that sounded
good and I was like I'll just do that so
a lot of my old
music when I was about 7 or 8 was doing
stuff like
that now I have an inclination towards
Jazz chords which is a good thing and a
bad thing I think knowing Jazz chords is
like really good for versatility I think
cuz you can like fit into a lot of
situations
the problem
is it's an addiction I
think like I have a hard time making
things not sound Jazzy and have Jazz
chords and stuff so in a way it also
hurts my versatility
because if I play something with less
than five notes in it I just freak
out which is a problem
because there's a lot of cases in which
having you know less than five notes in
a chord would actually be a great idea
but you know you know what it is so to
get out of that rut lately I've been
being like okay I have to pick one note
with my left hand and one note with my
right hand and that's my
chord and I was like I have to get used
to it I have to be like I am only
allowed to use two notes for a chord
right now that's all I can do
and to the average listener that's
probably like oh that sounds great that
sounds nice and to me I'm like there
needs to be more there needs to be more
notes in between there needs to be more
needs to be bigger it needs to be needs
to be bigger but
something I've been doing to try and
help myself is like do these two note
chords and just stick with
them it is hard though so like J's
chords are an
addiction no no so this is a
chord if if they were just an octave it
would be like
this or like
this but this is a chord
[Music]
so octaves will sound
like which is cool but that's more of a
melody or like a a lower Baseline sort
of idea I like the idea of these like
little
[Music]
running I like those those are
octaves oh yeah true no sorry I I don't
mean to say that they're chords but
they're yeah they are inter intervals
but like trying to limit myself to not
like having such a huge array because a
chord would just be one two and then
something in between here or even up
here you know depending on how you voice
it but but yeah um trying to stick to
keep wanting to say
chords as
intervals um limiting myself is a good
thing I think Sans uh is having a bit of
a breakdown it's okay buddy we got
you see I can't I can't play that chord
because I have no idea what that means
I could try but I don't I don't actually
know what chords are called so it's a
c with a seventh so it's
like and then
here is this chord am I am I correct or
am I wrong
[Music]
see I have no idea I like the chord
though yeah having Perfect Pitch and not
knowing chord names is really funny
soone it's like play a d easy or someone
will be a note like what's that's an A
but but then if you tell me to
play the [__] was that c 7 sustain 49
nine flat plus 13 flat I was like um I
know where
C but like if I hear a sound I'm like I
know I if if there's a tone in it I know
what tone it is so it's
like well that's
D easy I can do that
what are you doing is such a good
question cuz I don't know but thank you
for
asking I appreciate
it I really don't know what I'm
doing I'm good at pretending though good
at pretending I know what I'm doing
what are you
doing exactly like that just like
watching me play piano what the [__] is
what is what the [__] is that I don't
[__] I don't
know C
sh
F oh I was wrong the first time f g b d
F
sharp oh
[Music]
oh well that's quite
nice I like just that too
hold on hold
on isn't this just the opening to that
one black mini
[Music]
song extra happy you know what song this
is what song is it it's on sanheim
[Music]
it's like after the halfway point I just
can't remember the
title yeah I think it's up sanheim this
is the opening
bit except it's droned it's like volume
swelling with the guitar
[Music]
I like that chord
too this one's really
[Music]
scary evil BOS NOA
this may come as a surprise but I
actually
do a lot of drums on the piano I talk
about this every now and then so just
like a refresher for people who are new
to me or my streams or
anything um
[Music]
this is not even arranged in the way
that I wanted to I have a
custom AR like mapping for Addictive
Drums
somewhere here no are you up here
where are you
[__] drums is it
just no maybe
this yeah there we go this is my custom
midi arrangement for Addictive Drums
then we just like go
[Music]
let's
see sorry it's been a little bit I've
done this in a
bit let me find one that just feels
right I think it's
a no
[Music]
oh my goodness I'm so out of practice
[__] I'm fumbling in front of all of
stream oh I'm not good at this I'm I'm
fine
[Music]
I don't have double kick on this
Crashers are here I guess
[Music]
I'm not terribly impressive I'm out of
practice
here I would do a lot better on an
actual drum kit cuz that's
the instrument I've been playing the
longest I got a drum set when I was
two I haven't been able to play real not
that this isn't real drumming but I
haven't been able to play on an acoustic
kit in like five years so
[Music]
the other thing the other the problem
that I've had with um and anyone who's a
drummer will know how this feels
especially if you've been playing an
electric kit
before um when it comes to things
like on a keyboard or on a drum pad or
like something you do with your
fingers I have a hard time cuz I've
always accounted for like sticks and the
delay that happens when you hit a stick
and there's there's a bit
of extra time between when you actually
do something and when it hits the snare
or the or the drum or
whatever sort of accounted for that for
my entire life and now when I'm playing
I'm
like it's it's too immediate and it's
like too close to me I it needs the
weight is really important for me when
I'm when I've been doing drums and so it
really is still hard after all these
years to completely adapt to
like doing it here but don't
worry we're not just limited to these of
course I'm really I'm really excited to
be able to tell
you that the The Violet Pony plug lit
kit is real
[Music]
funny very
funny no snails house does not use this
kind of
808 snail's house 808 is just like a a
sign and a square or something
so that's
fun um what is this what is this
[Music]
funny
enjoyable anyway so that's
that to switch instruments oh it's just
it's just an Ableton it's whatever I
have record arm so right now I have two
instruments in the tracks here
it's arm to piano if I switch to arm
this it plays whatever's instruments on
this track
[Music]
instead can you make the Mr Beast song
I'm
no the keyboard the the ergonomic one I
built it
[Music]
if you want a keyboard that's like this
format and it's also mechanical go to
Kyron go to Kyron they're selling one
kind of like this
Bowser I do like it ich
kuroba um one of the albums of my top
ster is uh wind swep aen or however you
pronounce it so
beautiful actually I don't know if
everyone's seeing my top here U let me
pull it up it's been a while since I've
updated it so forgive me
it's not entirely accurate but feel free
to take a
look hopefully this is somehow
sensible I also slightly organized it by
color just because it looks
cool some things some things are going
to change about this though
by the end of this
year yeah I
um I don't know where I put
it
I I probably put it in my CD case I got
somewhere I didn't realize that they
were still doing new prints so I got
some things the story
Rec brat is too green no brat will go on
here don't worry about it it's it's
going to replace how I'm feeling now
rest in
peace honestly yeah the new Cala might
make it and I just have no idea where
what it will replace like maybe Queens
of the Stone Age cuz like Queens are
good but like is it say good not really
that's my
thought green the St age is good but
again it's not sizzy
good we're got to we're got to figure
this
out could new Porter replace nurture
Maybe
um
maybe
but that is a honestly that's a really
hard
question I don't know cuz I love
nurture you think they're freestyle I
actually haven't heard it
yet I just haven't been in the mindset
for it
are you attending the Tik Tok RZ party I
have no
RZ I've been drained of it what do you
mean I'm
drained and
[__] oh no that's a that's a way to
go you don't see Nero's Day at
Disneyland
but a reasonable pick for your topster
regardless no it's not
there it's not there buddy that's not
their
sense King gizard hasn't clicked with me
fully enough to like put it on here I
think they have so much music and it's
like I have to sort through
it I kind of understand how I feel
no Friday night
funin I'm
sorry I thought it was just a side
project but I could be
wrong radio head is here out of
necessity um I I would I would kick them
off if I could think more about what
belongs on that spot I do love radier
head
though favorite song off of good faith
um probably no fear no more
honestly yeah I listen to Violet Pony um
fish whisper is right
here on the top ster
no I haven't I wanted to play that but I
couldn't get the
motivation to do
it yeah well my music's going to be on
my top St because I'm my biggest fan why
would I why would I make music if I
don't like my
music I make music that I want to listen
to I make it so I can listen to it it's
like I kind of wish there was an album
that was like fish whisper I guess I'll
just make it so I can listen to
it but yeah
so I even listen to the music that I've
made that I don't like because it's a
good motivator to be like look how look
how we've come look how great things
are very proud very
happy this occasion to put I mean but
but Wallock gets
better
yeah yeah I mean there's nothing wrong
with wanting to make art for other
people as well I think that should be
the next point but um it should always
be for you
first that's the case with a lot of
things in life even if you're doing
something
something in service to something or
someone else at the core it should
always be for yourself
first it's the best kind of
motivation see here's what happens a lot
of time when I when I get back on you
you just you probably just heard this
it's like I go back to the piano and I
don't know what I'm doing at the moment
so I'm like is this a chord people like
I tried to play a bad chord on accident
but it was like
good failed failed okay but it's
like it's like oh that's not a chord I
like I have to like get my hands back to
filling the keyboard and be like I know
how this thing works I know the chord
shapes I like I know how music works
so there we go but like if I if I
haven't played piano in a while and I go
back to it it's like I'm like relearning
it in the first like 5 or 10 minutes and
then I'm then I'm good it's one of the
reasons why it would probably be hard
for me to play live at this time cuz
it's
like in order to like truly be able to
do it properly I need like a warm-up
time in front of everyone just like let
people watch me kind of fumble around
until I know what a piano
is
so I play this cord a lot when I just
when I'm doing something else with my
hands I have this
poppy thing I have like five of these I
have one in my keychain I have like a
couple stashed away in an
emergency and I have one with me at my
desk all the
time also
have this
Cube I have a squishy but I haven't even
using the
squishy but it's here I have it
I haven't been using it I just like the
popet
one
but having I'm not going to twist it but
having this having this is like such a
good uh productivity thing for
me because for like if I'm waiting for
something to export or I'm like thinking
of how to do
something having something to do with my
hands is like really good because the
moment I stop all train of thought just
crashes
so I would totally solve a Rubik's Cube
on stream right now but I keep
forgetting how to do the second layer
solve and I just don't feel like
embarrassing myself right
now also I feel like I saw a message
earlier being like is this a omy St
preset it is not exactly that it's a
keycap one but I'm just using om speres
life as the host for it and the reason
why is cuz as far as I know on
keyscape you can't do this click out of
this and
then fine tune
things in on the spere you can which so
it's like I don't know what the point of
having different like host clients for
these instruments are but that's that's
why I do this I also realize this one
has Reverb so I'd rather do this
[Music]
one like a dry dry piano kind of like up
in your face sort of
sound
in one kind of method with the Rubik's
cuy make a fish not all of
them I think the least efficient known
solution involves a fish but it's not
the most efficient one efficient get
it how do to you're good at music copy
people who are good at music and then
you'll get
good right that's that's like that's a
big thing just like look at the [__]
that you like and be like I'm just going
to do that and then I'll figure it out
later and you develop into yourself it's
really funny advice cuz what's I feel
like I know how to make music that's
like very much
myself and very unique to me but for the
past few records I've just been like
trying to make music like most of my
Inspirations um I'm kind of proud of
that I'm like kind of proud of like
wearing my Inspirations on my sleeve
like there's been a lot of talk of
people being like Oh my God the new girl
s Wizards album It's like a savant album
I'm like [__] yeah it is it's the Savant
album that I've been wanting for a long
time but like he's not doing things the
exact same way anymore so it's my turn I
got to do it I got to fill in I got a
lock
in but like in some cases I think that's
really awesome it's like if totally
[__] is a savant Al I'm not going to
be I'm not going to cry about it that's
awesome that's a compliment thank
you
um
but at the same time starting from this
point I'm looking to do more things that
are like kind of from my own
personal repertoire of making music that
will be a little bit more off the beaten
path cuz it's like kind of vague and
myself and not extremely inspired by any
one person or artist or
group but I'm not afraid of wearing my
Inspirations on my
sleave I think it's important I feel
like
um I go on this rant a lot
but I think I think a lot of people need
to like hear about stuff like this
especially if you're an artist
like
um you should not be afraid of like
building on the things you
know cuz like that's what art is art art
doesn't exist without
iteration
um mu I didn't invent music I didn't
invent the piano or the guitar or
anything I I'm just making music with
the things that have already been
established it's crazy that someone out
there invented the piano but even they
probably got the idea from somewhere
else based on other instruments from
different parts of the world
before
um and art is just like that
um it's so funny that there's this whole
deal where in the music industry they're
trying to do lwuit of record
progressions like you can't that doesn't
make sense that's you're like
gatekeeping the mathematical Western
scale how is that how are you doing
that I do think that the harps of cord
came first
yeah harps of cord was sort of crude in
the fact that there was no
velocity um but artist like that you
don't really exist as an artist
without having an
inspiration so all that is to say is
shout out to whoever made like the first
bone flute 100,000 or so years ago cuz
like everything after that is
derivative everyone's just been stealing
from that one person for
centuries so you know that's
life um
yeah they used to make like instruments
out of like animal
bones thousands of years
ago we've been stealing from Birds
yeah I think for music to be original it
really needs to have your input as a
person and as a per like with your
personality and like your life
experiences and the ideas that make you
up and like stuff like that but
you can't do anything without borrowing
from what came
before um and I think it's extremely
obvious inspiration versus pure
plagiarism I feel like that's pretty
obvious and even then it's it's a dicey
thing cuz
like if someone wanted to make a a Y2K
inspired you know scene dance pop song
with like bright colors and like a furry
kind of character and it was super
adjacent to anonym I wouldn't think oh
my God this person's copying me I would
think I mean that's just something that
ex like that's just [__] that exists I
didn't invent scene I didn't invent
someone wearing a g
hoodie the
[__] like scene has existed since I was
a kid I didn't do that I didn't make
that [__] up
I'm not trying to claim ownership of it
there's an occasion where there are
occasions very rarely now but like it
was it yeah well Pico there were some
occasions that happened a lot when ANM
first came out where people were just
like crediting both me and Pico
for having their character wear good G
hoodie it's like we didn't invent this
though I appre we appreciate the the
recognition but like we didn't invent
it like that's just something that
existed
um what what was I saying like if
someone was like making a song that was
like very similar to me very similar in
topic and like tried to work out a lot
of the things the way I do I was like
fine I don't
care first of all it's how you learn
second of all wear your Inspirations on
your sleeve it's like
that's art arst community that's
awesome uh I think people should take my
music and they should steal it and
Sample it and [__] and like make
copyright lawyers really scared cuz they
deserve to
be they deserve to be quaking every
moment and every
day like steal my [__] sample it turn
into a beat of your own I don't [__]
care make money off of it make a living
off of it do it I'm encouraging you to
do do it go for
it the thought of like someone sampling
my music and then like making a career
out of like making music it's like I
feel so
grateful to be able to have that happen
so I hope it
does and like the most important thing
is is
like honor and recognition and
attribution I think I think something
that one of the reasons why things like
the LOI hip hop movement feels so weird
isn't because of the of the sampling
because the problem isn't really with
sampling it's the lack of
respect and the lack of knowledge about
what's going on and the reason why I I
bring specifically Loi hip hop up is
because I am I was one of those people
that was just doing it because it was
trendy but I mean go back to my 2016
2017 music any any of you go find the
LOI hip-hop [__] and tell
me you can tell I don't know what the
[__] I was doing it's like I'm just
making some trendy music like
whatever but like one of the problems
with Loi hip-hop music is literally just
like the lack of respect and
understanding of what you're even doing
and what you're even sampling what
you're what inspiration you're drawing
from that's what's made a lot of Loi hip
hop feel so disingenuous is because like
people don't [__] get it
like they they they they're not
listening to actual hip-hop they're not
listening to like the the music they're
taking from from Jazz from Soul they
don't know anything about black history
they don't know about the black
innovation in art that's so much of what
we enjoy today is all because of black
artists and 100% because they came up
with it first rock music hip-hop [__]
electronic music dance music it's all
it's all people of
color who who created this [__]
like that's what's made stuff like that
feel such disingenuous is not the
sampling not the inspiration but just
like the absolute lack of
reverence and I say that as someone who
was like that I didn't [__] get it I
didn't listen to enough hip-hop I didn't
I wasn't into the culture and that
[__]
showed you listen to the old [__] I made
it's like this is like completely
disingenuous is poser
[__] um I don't want to I don't want to
pretend that didn't happen I want to
tell you guys like hey I was that
[__]
[__] don't be that [__] [__] listen
to me I know this [__] I've been there I
know what I'm talking
about
um and yeah like the Godfathers uh nuji
and um Jilla
if you haven't listened to them don't
ever listen to Loi hip hop
ever like you're you're basically making
a mistake if you listen to the LOI
hip-hop radio station but you've never
listened to Jill or
nuji like that's just morally wrong in
my
opinion so where was I going with this
oh yeah steel ship
you want to learn how to make music
steal [__] listen to what other people
are doing but have reverence remember
where you came from remember what stuff
made you and don't be shy about it like
be proud that you love the art that you
do and be proud that the art you love
inspires what you
do and give reverence to it it's so
beautiful like I can't believe there are
people out there who [__] hate that
it's
like you're really going to get mad
about this beautiful tapestry of artists
iterating on this idea over and over
again and like it's a reflection of who
we are and where we came from and what
we want to do with art that is one of
the most beautiful things in the world
and you want to say that's
terrible it's a Ste
[__] you like my music you want to make
music like me just listen to my music
and be like all right how do I do that
I'm going to copy I'm going to copy that
let's do it that's
fine there are so many great tutorials
on YouTube now you just got to be able
to sort through them sometimes the good
tutorials are long A lot of times the
better ones are short and unfortunately
a lot of the best tutorials out there
are by people who don't get any views
whatsoever
like you have some person who get who
has like 2 million subscribers with a
clickbait thumbnail saying I'm going to
teach you the secret sauce for this well
that's a red
flag that person's not going to teach
you [__] but some random dude from 12
years ago on a laptop with 800 views and
the thumbnail is just a screenshot of
Ableton that's the person who's going to
teach you the secrets of the [__]
Universe I'm
serious I still don't quite understand
why that's the case but time and time
again I find that to be
true you have to dig for those tutorials
but when you do you have to look for
those red flags like is this person
trying to sell me something is this
person advertising something is this
person affiliated with something and
usually the most authentic tutorials are
coming from people who just are excited
to show you how to do
something so but but they're out
there um I just saw my audio meter make
a really loud sound I didn't hear it but
I just saw it happen did anyone hear
that it was on the Left Channel I think
it just like spiked I didn't hear it
though
interesting no it was my chair it was uh
it was on the
no it was it was on the computer side I
saw the meter it's a different meter
than my
microphone my chair is really squeaky
though I hate it I need a new one but
chairs are so
expensive
like why are chairs well chairs are
expensive because they have to support
like a body in it so I mean kind of
makes sense get some WD40 I don't know
where the squeaking is coming from
though I don't know where it is I with
my roommate we were trying to figure out
like like I can hear we can hear where
it's coming from it's like coming from
somewhere very indistinguishable within
so the chair works so I'm just keep just
keeping it for now like I feel like I
feel like a the kind of chair that would
matter would be like $200 plus dollars
it's like I'm not [__] doing that
right now
dud can't they the hydraulic piston in
the central column it will explode if
it's made wrong that makes plenty of
sense I
think it's
Precision it's Beauty it's Beauty in
everything I couldn't build a chair I
couldn't design a chair it's crazy that
people can do it
like I was thinking um return to stand
if I had a standing desk everything
would be like the every everything would
be
better but I don't have I don't have a
way to use the standing desk right
now
um the do last ages this chair is I've
had this chair for like four or five
years I need a new one but it's it it
works
so um
maybe I'll buy a new chair after the
next final campaign question
mark guys buy my new vinyl records so I
can afford a chair
please yeah I I'll get a new chair I
promise it's just it's just not right
now trust me I want one I
do um
but
yeah where what are we doing where am
I do I
exist am I
exist when am I how am I I don't
know what are the best chair tutorials
the the the one by Allen tutorial look
it up blue how to pick up a blue chair
it's really good
stand on bricks stand up
bricks I actually can't read that
message until someone else sends another
message because there's a heart in front
of it there we go Stack Up bricks to sit
on so the chat is like really small for
me you can see
here
and sometimes the heart
covers the messages it's like okay
there's a there's a there's a world
there's a world out there but it's been
covered by the heart
so yeah there is a delay I feel like I
could reduce it but I feel like it makes
the stream worse so
whatever that's YouTube for you the
heart will cover
everything something I do like to do is
in omnisphere cuz there's like what
177,000 instruments in here does anyone
know that number it's like 177,000
instruments so you just click this
random button and just like listen to
what it sounds
like oh
[Music]
do I like
this there's 14,000 instruments on
omnisphere but I also have keyscape and
trillion so
[Music]
pad
that's cool
[Music]
fun well that was really loud why do you
have to be so
[Music]
loud is that
also did someone say bosan NOA I did BOS
NOA it's in
Carousel it's an
um base
cannon of all places apparently I rated
this one three out of
five the rating system I have on
omnisphere is just if it's a each one's
a different
category it's like five is just favorite
four is like useful for anything three
is strange but potentially useful and
two and one are just things I should
sample and not really use as an
instrument
[Music]
here okay there's that's a chord so I
can only play one note for it to make
sense mostly
[Music]
I like
that
oh I can misss are closed sorry they're
closed indefinitely for a very long
[Music]
time it's actually funny I actually got
like a commission request sent through
my website a few days ago like how did
how the [__] did you do that I've taken
that page down from every like link
Source Who who found that page and like
sent to request even though we removed
it from the website it was so funny it
was very endearing but it was really
funny like how how did you do
that how do they just like type the URL
manually like oh I don't see it on the
website I'll just type it in it was like
really funny no hate I just thought it
was
funny what were they commissioning I
have no idea at all I I did not I do not
read
it it looked authentic tick I will say
cuz i' I've seen bot spam for that web
form before it didn't look like a Spam
so someone just like really really
wanted a commission
[Music]
it's a little
scratchy is this [__] halflife
[Applause]
[Music]
hey guys
[Applause]
[Music]
r
[Applause]
[Music]
he
you guys ready for some crazy [__] here
as we go to
[Music]
Nexus right and then we go
oh
[__] oh no no no no no no
no uh that's that note that's that note
that's that feel that's that everything
that's that
[__] oh [__] that's that's it that's the
one
right let's try and filter this more
[Music]
let's try and bring out some of that
honky w w stuff
[Music]
I'll turn the computer audio
down hopefully that's
better and then we
have we want we want
this the [__] just fell
he
I
uh just decided to call it the gump
reactor
so don't worry about that
Bo
[Music]
um what was I doing I want to find
something like
this
that do this
slow it down
he
all
[Music]
right
oh I
he
now
[Music]
all
w
there's actually some videos that came
out recently of like them showing the
samples that uh halflife that were in
halflife um both halflife one and
two it's at the moment I heard this not
that not that either where was it
this I like it sounds like one of the
distorted reality Loops that they
used
in half life um from Ultra also from
spectronics actually so it's interesting
is uh spectronics the company that makes
omnis sphere they used to put out mostly
sample
packs and a lot of those sample packs
were used in a lot of
early late '90s early 2000s video
games um and they don't really really do
sample packs anymore as far as I know
everything they've done has now been
condensed into omn spere which is an
instrument but ironically the reason why
it sounded like halflife to me is
probably
because I mean halflife was built off of
the stuff spectronics was doing so
question
Mark apparently this one showed up in
spectr Sonic's atmosphere which may be a
sample pack question mark could even be
one of the ones that was used in
halflife actually but
I just that
sound just the one base
note feel like we could bring out more
of that that stuff over
here go on tube clean
anyway that's
fun I'll save
it I'll duplicate they have uh eight
bars
total I'll
just give that
to actually what if
I made the Baseline just first
just said the drums F
on okay there we go I'll just export
that for
fun because that's what we like to do we
like to do things for
fun and like I said I have to hide my
screen CU whenever I save or export
files there's a chance that I'll have
another project open we can't can't get
the leaks out we can't have a leak
smoking
nothing okay let's go
back so to get back to the
piano on
sphere we like to turn on keyscape
library and then go over here and it's
right here
what was that progression I was playing
earlier
whoa not that one
that's not a
cord what was I what did I want to do
there one that want that one this want
this oh I wanted to move up here from
here
to which is
the that is the on the sea thing again
just in a different key sort
of so
[Music]
uh uh
you oh
[Music]
you
you you
something I do is um if I don't know
what I'm singing yet it's kind of say
random [__] in Melody but sounds
good words I tend to use more than
others when I'm like just ad
living OT thank you for asking I have no
idea but I appreciate
it actually do you want I was going to
write this in in uh my tumblr post about
girls who are wizards but but um I
actually didn't use a lot of autotune in
girl forare wizards but there was still
a little bit throughout the album but at
the very end where I hit the highest
notes at in the in the name of
friendship I was like okay I'm going to
turn off the autotune entirely for that
part because wouldn't it be funny if I
did like some of the hardest notes I've
ever had to hit without any autotune
whatsoever I think that would be
funny it's like I've used the autotune
just to keep things in check for like
the lower tensity areas it's like
wouldn't it be funny if the part where
had to do like the hardest notes to hit
I just turned off the
atitude and so I did so the ending of in
a name of friendship has zero aune
whatsoever there there isn't really a
reason for it I don't really need
autotune very much it's mainly just like
for pop
stuff if your voice fluctuates just a
little bit it's a little bit
noticeable in other music like like you
know more acoustic and Rock stuff like
the autotune isn't really necessary
because the music really benefits from
having that
fluctuation but um in the name of
friendship I was like there's something
really pretty about my
voice kind of fluctuating in and out
because the music itself is so perfectly
in tune that my voice being sort of like
moving up and down just a little bit
like created this interesting Reverb
space on top of the um that last part so
was very nice
something else I have a hard time doing
is playing piano while singing so I
don't normally do it I'm doing it right
now for some reason but I usually have a
hard time multitasking don't ask me why
I can do it right now I just feel like
it I'm just able
to I think I get the opposite of stage
fight where I feel more confident in
front of other people so it's like
things I can't normally do I'm just like
well I'm gonna push myself to do it in
front of people so I may as
well kind of
fun the [__] and then that happens is
like the [__] is that that's that's not
the natural progression of things hello
evil stage
free this this so silly sounding but
maybe I know I feel very shy and like
kind of closed off most of the time but
that but then like when I'm in front of
people on a stage for whatever reason it
just feels fine to
me I don't really understand it cuz if
I'm just talking to people I have a hard
time I'm like really socially
anxious I'm like I don't know how to
talk to people but if I'm on stage
suddenly it doesn't like I'm fine I
don't understand it but I hope it makes
sense and then we
did it was
that there we go that was that was the
one I was
thinking Pony yearns for the
stages Maybe
[Music]
I I don't
know
I could
[Music]
oh
oh it does sound like do it all
differently doesn't it but that's we go
from this chord to to here
instead interesting I think I picked up
on
that let me see here's here here's the
thing I love to do I don't really
practice or rehearse very much for
anything so because of how much how
little I do that how about I try and
perform
something how about I do the thing that
should be extremely hard for me to do we
pull up the lyrics to do it all
differently okay
okay no rehearsal this is just me doing
it let's get some water
[Music]
my anxiety is acting up so my heart is
sort of like wubbly which will make my
voice shakier
but that's
fine I want to
be the one that every voice calls
out in a world that I could call my own
i' waiting for this
moment feels like I've been living in my
head and that's the words Escape my
mouth oh [__] I hit that you hear that
[__] I hit it I didn't even no rehearsal
I hit that [__] I ESC
my a second guess myself
would you do it all
differently other way the way you
wanted and in this
Escape is there really
peace [__] sometimes I'm good at singing
that's all I can
say it's so funny because it's like I'll
I'll spend so much time recording vocals
and then it's
like when I'm recording it it's like I
can't do it but when I'm like performing
it it's like oh I can do it just fine
it's fine everything's fine but then but
then when I when I start when I hit the
moment I hit record it's over I sto
being as
good let's see do I remember this song
is it still
just would you do it all differently if
nothing were so
Tang breaking out of the wait that's not
the Rhythm hold on I got
this let breing
okay breaking out of this stream of
conscious that fed me
I've been waiting for this moment since
we met a is that how it
goes I don't even remember since we oh
my goodness
oh it's I've been waiting for this
moment since we met a DFT I remember now
whoops guys I write so much
music I can't remember at
all I waited for this moment since we
met a
drift never knew my heart was broken ch
you fix
me I don't want to be afraid of my
shadow
anymore if I could live my place here
outside I follow
anymore
flying in a world of your
Creation The Mark of
itself that you thought was fun and gay
please don't let this feel slip
away the thought that all you do is
Meaningful will abandon you on one day
would you do it all differently if
nothing were so
tangible breaking out of this stream of
Consciousness that FedEd
me but what if I fail
flying a
kite in a world of yor
Creation The Mark of a tale that you
thought was fun and
games please don't let this feeling SLI
[Music]
away thought that all you
do it's
meaningful will abandon you one day
okay so I I think I remember how to play
that song
now
so um
interesting I'm trying to think I don't
think I've performed in front of people
like that before
maybe I've done a lot of things but I
don't think I've done that before it
felt really nice I like
it problem is I need to remember how to
play all my own songs on
piano this one's easy cuz it's
just that's all it's just those three
chords all right let's let's I think I'm
going to do it again this time maybe
with more
resolution water is
good deep breath
[__] music's the [__] best isn't
it [__] love music so
much okay we're here we're
here I love this
stuff all
right I want to be the one that every
voice calls
out in a world that I could call my own
oh I've been waiting for this
moment feel like I've been living in my
head and afterward Escape my mouth a
second guess
myself would you do it all
different see that's what happens when I
don't practice
you do it all
differently all the ways the way you
want
it and this Escape is the really
P I think it's really important to hear
mistakes or if they're not mist mistakes
than unintentional
differences no matter what you do as a
person or as an artist you're always
going to make mistakes there's something
really excited about like I'm really
excited to show mistakes cuz all you
ever hear is like the finished stuff I
do you don't get to hear the the M
UPS the journey to get
there I feel like really happy to like
show
mistakes because we all we all need to
see
them it's
good would you do it all
different nothing worth here we go
there's one of them would you do it all
differently if nothing were so
Tang breaking out of the stream of
Consciousness that FedEd me
there's a way you could have added
tension there as well is if we go
from and then
[Music]
some [__] like that I never wanted to be
a
singer I I just did because I couldn't
afford to pay vocalists to be on my
songs I know I'm a
singer funny how that [__]
happens i' been waiting for this moment
oh here we go again do I remember this
oh
yeah IIT oh let's one more time here we
go we got this guys I waiting for this
moment since we met a
drift never knew my heart was broken
wait okay so it's actually not just that
that that it's also this and
then just like I was talking about
actually
never knew my heart was
broken you f oh and then we go okay
sorry I'm like relearning this song it's
been four
years never knew my heart was broken CH
you fix
me I don't want to be
a and order to hit those notes I have to
be much louder and it's like 3:00
a.m. so maybe we should change change
the transpose
it never knew my heart was
brok you fix
me nice there we
go there we go all right from the
top let's do this from the top we're
learning this together
I want to be the one that every voice
calls
out in a world that I could call my own
oh I've been waiting for this
moment feels like I've been living in my
head and that's the scape my mouth a
second guess
myself would you do it all
differently all the ways the way you
wanted and this Escape is there really
peace would you do it all differently if
nothing was so
tangible breaking out of the stream of
Consciousness that fed me
I've been waiting for this moment since
we met a
trift never knew my heart was broken
till you f fix
me I don't want to be afraid of my
shadow
anymore if I can learn my place here
outside I'll follow ever
more flying a kite in a world of your
cre
the mark of a sale that you thought was
fun in
games that you thought was fun and
games please don't let this feeling slip
away
the thought that all you do is
Meaningful will abandon you one
day would you do it all differently if
nothing were so
tangible breaking out of this stream of
Consciousness that feeted
me
but what if I fail
[Music]
I will show you
everything there is to see
about this
place we've
only dreamed
of flying aite in a world of your
Creation The Mark of a tale that you
thought was fun and games
please don't let this feeling slip
away
oh the thought that all you do is
Meaningful will abandon you one
[Music]
day
nice one day I'll be able to play that
without [__] up but like
how's it going how do you
feel the song is called do it all
differently wrote it four years
ago four or five years ago
let me see about this
one I can sing this song and I can play
this on piano but doing it at the same
time I don't
know let's find
out
everything is because of you so why did
I foret
so
soon what you did for me get lost in
this
regret o o
[Music]
remember
all the little
things yes I'll never ever know at all
and I can't and I just can't
let
go let go yeah
memories dropped and
empathy still I can't seem to
feel feeling everything
how it comes
so sural
when we woke up there was
another day for
us oh another chance to live
again oh how we fought still we learn
what really
mattered it turned out fine but I'm
still scared
anyway remember
all the
little
[Music]
things guess I'll never ever know
again remember
all the little
hugs because everyone's a
story how we thought
[Music]
how we
love how we
thought how we
love damn
so that was a little hugs from TS from
Equestria I wrote that when I was
18 that was almost eight years
ago my heart is destroyed when I think
of
that so yeah
let me
see so then there's I can't stop
thinking and I don't quite remember how
to play that so let me
just I can't stop thinking
Violet let's see
[Music]
okay that's a lot of cords
um let's see so it's this
[Music]
so I think
it's is that right sorry I'm listening
again only
[Music]
okay so
it's I think that's correct let's let's
give it a roll let's give it a try
I don't
remember when you last cried time could
only tell what words have
lost ever will Ros to each time
beautiful
memory cost I think that's right
that
and I don't
know if it's hard for you trust me
anyway and all these things I feel for
everything there
was I I just can't get out of my
head can't get you out of my
head we watched from distant world so
cried out to hear the wind blow
maybe it was all for
us maybe it was one of us rushing
through a fin night youth when every
drop of rain would
burn us between the warmth and what we
had too young to understand
the and I don't
know if it's hard for you trust me
anyway
where were you when we had fallen and
I
I and all these things I feel for
every that was
I can't stop thinking at
all and
still the shadows of our friendship
never
meet can we ever
try the destined for silence
yeah we are bound in a
circumstance of our
[Music]
own yeah that's
something I need to remember
got work to
do got some work to do I'll get
better I've relied so much on recording
it's like I need to start getting used
to performing for
Real's get out of my comfort zone with
that what about
I don't know if I could sing this song
at 3:00 a.m. I don't know if it's going
to be too
loud for anyone who's know my music for
a while you know I'm like mad nostalgic
for all the stuff I'm playing right
now but the only newish song I played is
uh do it all differently and that's
still four years
old got to stop being
Jazzy all right let's try this let's
just do it for fun this is is very
fun looking back the way we saw
it we were never
awake we did to dream outside our
own with our hearts at stake
equestrial flame burned
out sparking ember in the dead of
night we are waiting room for the
Stars waiting for the tender of
flight elusive to your
dismay you find you burn from it
all Shadows you conf
find feel the
pain your guilty crime
darling fall into
faithlessness let me show you my
[Music]
heart you are my
Ember waiting room waiting room for the
Stars waiting room for the Stars
this one's hard to do uh both playing
piano and sing at the same time because
I know the lyrics I know how to sing it
I know
this but then doing it at the same time
it's
like God it's so hard how do people do
this it's like I can only do one thing
at a time
this this is a more nuanced piano piece
it's
[Music]
like like how many cords is that 1 2 3 4
five five six 7even
eight it's like eight cords in the span
of like one bar is a lot for
me it's probably not for a lot for
someone super experience but like for me
personally it's like [__] I do so many
things with my fingers and my voice at
the same
time and then I feel like I'm forgetting
the waiting room for the Stars
part
it's
Stars what is that cord
all right we're can
listen it's
I forgot that it it it rotates around
those cords interesting okay let's try
this
again deep breaths
know
[Music]
yourself let's looking back the way we
saw
it we were never
awake we did to dream outside our
own with our hearts at stay
[Music]
Equestria flame burned
out sparking ever in the de of
night we are waiting room for the
Stars waiting the
it's Su stain pedal stay
there elusive to your
dismay fine you burn from it
all the sh the Shadows youve can
find feel the
pain your guilty
crime
daring fall into
[Music]
faithlessness is like
that
fath let me show you my heart yeah there
we
go
[Music]
darling fall into faithlessness
let me show you my
heart you are my
am I want to be louder to hit those
notes but it's so
late you are my
Ember waiting waiting waiting for the
Stars waiting for the Stars
we were lost and were
[Music]
found is that
right no it's
just we were lost and
[Music]
unfound we live in
consequence you are
you are my
Ember waiting room for the St waiting
room for the
Stars this one takes a lot of practice I
think it's fun to try it though
do I have just the
Ember
instrumental oh what do you
know all
right just for funsies
this is the instrumental to
Ember and I'll just sing
it noal okay
[Music]
oh
looking back the way we saw
it we were never
awake we did to
dream outside our
own with our hearts at
STI oh
[Music]
equestrial flame Burns
Out sparking ember in the dead of
night we are waiting room for the
stores waiting for that's under a
flight
m I to your
dismay you find your birth from it
all the Shadows you've conf
find feel the pain oh your guilty
CME
darling fall into
faithlessness let me show you my heart
you are my
Emperor a waiting room for the Stars
waiting room for the
Stars we were lost and were
[Music]
found still we live in
consequence you are my
emper waiting room for the Stars wa
waiting room for the
Stars
if you can never learn what it means to
fall we always
fade as you shelter
[Music]
the
flame let's try that
again Candle in the Wind will always fit
sorry was the wrong L again if you never
Lear SP your
wings you can never learn what it means
to
fall Candle in the Wind will always
fade Les you shelter
protect the
flame as you nurture your spirit
here your
audience will do the
same
o elusive to your
dismay you find your burn from it
all Shadows you've come
fine feel the
pain your guilty
crime
darling fall into
[Music]
faithlessness let me show you my
heart you are my
waiting room for the Stars a waiting
room for the
Stars we were lost and we
[Music]
found still we live in C
sequence you are my
emper waiting room for the Stars waiting
room for the
Stars oh
uh well
done well well
well that was
fun I hope that was
fine felt stilted felt strange it's all
good
I'll solve this
[Music]
out for
oh hello
[Music]
I hear something I do in my music is I
like
take my finger and do
this and I'll put it in the back of of a
song so it's
[Music]
like just add some like kind of fluttery
yeah well that's how I do it
[Music]
sorry my my fingers went there and I
just I'm sorry
[Music]
de Free Bird
um I think I'm
[Music]
okay I was talking about this on Tumblr
but obviously the keyscape stuff the
omnisphere stuff
these are really high quality sounding
pianos like if I go to the LA
custom this is this is less muffled and
less intimate sounding and it's more
like a real grand
[Music]
piano much brighter sounding
anyone who's worked with like digital
pianos knows how high quality this
particular one
[Music]
is but I find interesting is that no
matter how like even though I have like
probably my ideal p piano for for
digital space this
one um there's something really
beautiful about like imperfectly sampled
pianos um and I've been using one since
like 2015 the exact same one it's free
you can download it just Google it when
I show you it if you want it it's a
contact
library and it's a free piano
and I haven't stopped using it even
though I have like my ideal favorite
digital
piano but you'll see what I mean it's
like imperfect it's kind of shitty it's
kind of a shitty piano that I'm going to
show you but it's like really pretty to
me where is it
it's here
here here it's called City Piano
and sounds like
[Music]
this there's only a few velocities and
the keys don't even sound like they go
together
sometimes and the sustain the release is
kind of weird but like God is it still
gorgeous
[Music]
listen to those high notes it's so
like that's that's so
beautiful shitty ass [__] piano free
piano go download it
um it sounds so
pretty and my favorite thing to do back
in the day in like 2015 2014 was to take
this and give it the Ableton specific
Reverb no other Reverb it has to be the
Ableton
Reverb and you get this really beautiful
ethereal sound
[Music]
I found I like to play in C the most for
this piano
actually I to think about where all the
keys sit in see C minor for this piano
it's sound really
pretty let me see if I can make it just
a little bit less tiny sounding so do
one of these do one of these and maybe a
little bit of
that there we
go guess that not one of the prettiest
sounds you've ever heard in your life
shitty free piano someone like recorded
hastily put it out for free but you give
it just the right amount of love and you
know how to play it you know how to get
its like it's sound out and then it's
just
like and I will never stop using it I
don't care how how good my studio gets
in the future I'm always going to use
this for free [__] piano cuz it
sounds so goddamn good
[Music]
[__] shout out to whoever made this I
forget who it is you'll you'll see their
credit if you look up just City Piano
contact
[Music]
yeah I think big cat
instruments that sounds familiar that
sounds
right yeah should work with cont this is
I'm using contact 7 right now
[Music]
oh yeah this is one of my favorite
things to play on this piano is just
these two
chords just this beautiful feeling of
like
suspension let see if I can remember how
to play something
[Music]
um can I do
it ah I think I just have to ruin the
surprise guys I'm
sorry I can't do it in my
head I think one of the most notable
uses after 2015 so not when I was
originally using it but when I was like
feeling nostalgic for it
[Music]
I don't think I used it in fish whisper
I think in fish whisper I was trying
really hard to get it to sound like
as what is the word I'm thinking of it's
not not pristine not professional just
like the most the most realistic I think
I wanted fish whisper to sound the most
realistic even the synthesizers are like
made to be super analog feeling and like
not very
digital so it's fish whisper I wanted to
like focus a lot on texture and reality
which is not normal for me but that's
why fish whisper sounds so
different I think I in the song I also
gave it some
attack and no releas
[Music]
like that release is so
terrible so you C you're like you just
can't use that but it's like you can
[Music]
I like composing the
mixtape um very
fast I just kind of made stuff and then
just ran with it it's kind of a blur
honestly I wonder if I have
the
actually I wonder how intact the project
is oh
[__]
um one second
wait that's the wrong one let me see how
intact The Paradise Valley projects are
I hope they're intact I hope they're
nice and
friendly
um all right
everyone pray pray that this project
opens pray that it does pray that it
doesn't choke
pray that it doesn't
choke so what you're about to see is me
opening a full project which I don't
think I've done very much on
stream but for the past couple albums
I've been working more and more on
standardizing things so projects Stay
Together better they use less CPU which
means I'll be able to show them more on
streams and
stuff I know most of the girls who are
wizard stuff should all be able to be
shown but we'll see if the Paradise
Valley stuff is the
case feel like something might be weird
we'll find
out
hello interesting I group drums and Bas
in here it's probably because of the
808s so let's see is everything
here okay why do I get no
sound if you're waiting for
hello oh I think I had to load
everything in
hello so let's let's let's talk about
this the entire song is built off of
this sound
so
baddy I better hear you out there this
is for you
um so okay this is going to scare
everyone I've been waiting for this this
is going to scare everyone let's is it
the full thing yep I didn't crop it it's
still there so this is a really long
file
Batty's really scared and rightfully so
this is a really long
file can we get to the
end there it goes here's the entire
file and I need to explain
something so let me go and find it
really quickly
so back last
year oh really no where's the Tweet come
on is that
it oh we're
winning
so last year many of you R remember if
you're on Twitter this weird person
who's obsessed with
AI was what made this thing hello my
name is Princess Jane I would like to
show you some tricks I hope you enjoy
it when I saw that I was like that's the
[__] worst thing I've ever seen in my
entire [__]
life by the way [__] AI [__] geni we're
[__] geni that's it that's that's that's
the long and short of it so everyone
[__]
J but
I saw this I was like this is [__]
awful how do I make this into something
I care about how do I find something
positive positive from
this so once more hello my name is
Princess Jan I would like to show yous I
hope you enjoy
[Applause]
it so I'm about to hurt everyone in here
and I'm really really really really
sorry for it okay I am
sorry wait sorry my screen was off let's
try this one more time so this video
came up hello my name is Princess Jane I
would like to show you some tricks I
hope you
enjoy worst [__] I've ever seen in my
life and I'm like how do we how do I
make how do I find a positive in this
okay and so
I actually brought that video into FL
Studio not Ableton but FL
Studio into
haror now why can't oh cuz the volume's
don't come there we
go some tricks I hope you enjoy it let's
CH this
up I'm going to I'm just going to take
off the master cuz my entire Master Ring
chain is
here which is causing a lot of latency
let's just delete
it let's not save let's remember not to
save the
project I hope you enjoy
it and I brought this into haror and I
was just playing around with it
and then I found the
cycle I started playing piano with
it I was recording this whole
process and then I found here I'll let
you here where it starts to turn into
this
pluck and so there is that but I didn't
stop
there was playing with some of the
settings in
haror and then when did the really crazy
stuff happen
I was just playing with this for a long
time okay and then here's here's where
the the the big idea happened I put on
this um multiband time delay that's an N
Studio to create these textures
and when I heard that I was like oh that
is
something I kept messing around with the
multiband delay and getting the sound
out of it
and
then I added attack and release to it
starting to sound
familiar and I messed around some more
after that but the important stuff is
right
here you take this and you pitch it down
by four 1 2 3 4 and you get
this and so I took
that chopped it up
why are you so angry it's just
strawberry honest opinion what
all right let's go and undo everything
I've done to this project so we go back
to the
beginning delete the master
which by the way here's another thing is
you can hear
this obviously there's a lot done to the
vocals to make it sound
more um in
context here's what happens if I turn
off all the processing
my heart out like you everything
be I
to and then all the processing does this
to
it so you notice that the volume
balancing is a lot stronger and there is
autotune on this one but I don't really
need it it's just there to keep it in
team of the
song
um what else is in here it's
fun there's also that it's just the same
sample got some chips sent sfc oh
apparently this sound is also the
princess Jane sound you can see it in
the source file
where
here so that's also the same
sound so all these sounds here I'll
group them
together are all made with the princess
Jane
sound some Nexus over
here some more Nexus
here oh this is one of my favorite
sounds is
this which is just this M1
thing shout out to r drum kits for this
one
using this preset after midnight which I
used to use in my earlier music in like
2012 2013 but I didn't actually have
Nexus I was getting samples from
looperman where people were playing
Nexus patches and then making them Loops
so I technically used this as a loop
back in the day but like not as an
actual instrument so I was like oh I
want to use it as an actual instrument
now so it's
here show you what it sounds like play
it also we have
this let's take off all the processing
which is actually from sport creatures
the Nintendo DS
game just the menu sounds
is there anything interesting here or is
it
just what's
that what was
this that might have just been a sound I
made I can't tell
[Music]
you can see all the instruments playing
all at once here or quite a few of them
here's everything that's playing in the
final part what helps to make it sound
so
huge so let's break this down Melody we
have this part
heart just this little M1 harp we have
this which
is just
this flute
sample we have these
[Music]
this sound I also used in our queen of
Misfits
songs Just A Sign just a little
sign and these over
here I turn off all the
processing take this out this is
actually the song revance by Sora
so I just took little parts of it and
made it into
ambient
sections and there's of course that and
this and this
and this and
this and
this and all those things come together
to make just this one Unified
[Music]
so a lot of the a lot of the time when
it's hard to even tell what instrument
is being played it's because it's a
bunch of different instruments all
coming together to make one
instrument it's a lot of different
sounds playing the same melodies
so this this part is made up of a
billion different drum
sounds there's that
one there's
that that one
there's that sound and then all these
are being like processed a lot too so if
I take off the processing for everything
you can hear what it's sounds very
different
altogether might sound terrible without
the
processing here's what it all sounds
like without the processing
and then with all the processing it
should be like
[Music]
what do processing in basic terms okay
let's find something that uses a lot of
processing what does this sound
like okay so here's a sound without Pro
without its processing and I wanted it
to sound like smashed and I didn't want
it to take up more room from the other
drums I wanted to sort of just be a
BackBeat
so first I use ot to squash it like
this then I use this EQ curve to take
out the low end so it sounds from this
to
this and then we have another EQ curve
which is more tonal shaping so it starts
from
here to become
this which is more subtle difference and
we have shaper box here which is doing a
transient removal so it starts from
here to here
so it takes out the initial snappiness
of the drums to give room to the other
drums then we have this EQ curve which
is just more
shaping and this one which is just
taking out the side channels from from
the low and
high so
before
after if I turn the processing off and
off in context here's what sounds like
off and
on so it helps fit with everything else
better CU I wanted it to sound kind of
Slappy but not also take away from the
energy of the other
parts um let's do one more song and then
I'm going to get
out because there's another fun one
there's another funny
one wait what what is this this is not
by the
seaside oh my God was the original demo
for
ECR by the seaside it might have been
the titles may have changed
let me go to the other
one what is what is this
then by the seaside too oh my bad sorry
everyone my Folly my vibrus my
everything etc etc
just waiting for it to load it's taking
a minute to load which is how I know
it's the actual project this one loaded
way too fast it's like the [__] it was
an early
demo there we go here's by the seaside
let's take out the master as per
usual just so we can have more
[Music]
space so proba the guitar parts are
handled by this thing
but I also have a sampled version as
well oh here's where the funny stuff
happens
um
[Music]
so let's talk about this sound
that
[Music]
so um let's let's take
the so that's from fortnite it's a
fortnite song it's one of my favorite
fortnite songs it's the fish dance song
um but it does it doesn't end there
because we have this
thing which is just
[Music]
another song from fortnite that's the
music I use in my Lobby and in
fortnite with all these effects on
it and this brass here
[Music]
or all fortnite sounds as well
some of these are tiny
drums is there anything interesting
about these or are they just patches I
made yeah they're just patches I me but
I like this base
I like
that I think this is an older base I
used before so the original Baseline was
like
[Music]
this but I didn't really like that so I
replaced it with this one
[Music]
anything interesting
here I think these are Raa twins so if I
take off the dub stuff
[Music]
so what's
what's so the flute part is actually a
bunch of samples but they're arranged
into a full
Melody let's take off all the processing
here's without the processing
[Music]
and if you pull these out it's just like
you can hear what the original sounds
are so I really didn't use them as Loops
I sort of found the the notes that I
like the most and then arrange them into
a Melody like that
this is a technique I do sometimes it's
like I could I could use like a virtual
instrument to do this but it wouldn't
sound as realistic cuz like just digital
instruments sound like not as good so
this idea is like sometimes I'll I'll
play a melody on the piano first and
then I'll be like I have that Melody
laid out and then I take a bunch of
samples and then arrange them to be in
line with the melody if that makes
sense I have I'd have to do a better
demonstration of that so sometimes for
that for that to make more sense I think
but it's like I am using a sample here
but it's like I'm kind of working off of
the melody that I already wrote and just
finding the parts that work the best in
that
way so that's the idea behind
[Music]
that although if I had a flute of my own
I would just do
it and I have these here oh wait I was
just saying I wish I had the melody that
I wrote but this is
it and then I just redid it with the
flute
[Music]
samples is this just a
sample I think it's just a Cuban like
stab oh no it's a dub
One S like a ray
thing oh I forgot about
this so let me take off all of the
processing for this sound and need just
this
so this is a song by knife
girl um who's an immense inspiration on
me and I took that sound that this part
of her song attachment therapy
and I pitched it
around and here are the effects that I
added to get the sound that you
hear so first there's this EQ which is
just taking out a lot of the low end so
from here
to like that I have sketch cassette here
to make it more
gritty then I add a velocity to make it
sound like a low MP3 low quality MP3
use this compressor to just smash
it then I have this which adds some like
digital
grit and here's where the big stuff
happens let's turn these modules on one
at a
time so first we have we have
this then we have a little noise
thing then some automated
Reverb then this time shaper which does
this then this
filter then I just have this thing doing
a crazy curve for the EQ here
so all that to take this
sound turn it into
thisor something I did not anticipate is
the syncopation that this provides cuz
it has
like that's so
cool oh yes I would recommend shaver box
in fact shaver box is on my top five
plugins list to be honest it's so
indispensable to me and is so useful for
so many things shaver box can be a crazy
effect box it can be a distortion it can
be a phaser it can be a flanger it can
be a volume shaper it can be a side
chain tool it can be a transient shaper
a multiband transient shaper it can be
an EQ if you really want it to be it
could be a bitc crasher it's like Jesus
Christ it's like you get that [__] on
sale and it feels like you're
stealing so yeah I recommend it what's
the context between the behind the
Hudson Bay sample
so um
Paradise Valley mixtape is revolves a
lot around my childhood friend
Pedro and like I was I kind of didn't
have any friends when I was in middle
school and was like kind of [__] me
out for life and uh no one liked me and
Pedro was like the complete opposite of
me very sporty and very popular and I'm
like I was like nerdy and no one was
friends with me and we started to do ta
we did a TA thing together for like some
Rel religious education
[__] and so we were forced to be in the
same room all the time by ourselves like
helping to be Tas and stuff and we
became friends that way in a weird way
and it introduced me to a lot of things
about myself and about like the world
and like I feel like Pedro got the same
things like he started to learn about a
lot of other like I guess nerdy things
and um
it's really interesting
because there we really shouldn't have
been friends it didn't make any sense we
were seemed totally
incompatible but we became really good
friends for like the the end of middle
school
and for our final project in our history
class in eth
grade we had to do something our teacher
wanted us to the class to do a song
making thing and this was around the
time I was getting into making
electronic music and Pedro was really
into hip-hop music and so I was exposed
to a lot of hip-hop music through
Pedro but at the time my understanding
of hip-hop music was still very
rudimentary so it was very like ill
informed I will
say but without Pedro I would have never
gotten into hip-hop music properly I
think or it would have taken a really
long
time um
and for that we decided to make really
the goal was to the teacher wanted us to
just write lyrics
essentially that incorporated the themes
and vocabulary of the American
Revolutionary
War and everyone else basically just
write wrote poems and sometimes they had
like a song they sort of recorded but it
was like a cover song like of another
song like taking the uh Gangam Style and
just making it about the American
Revolution or something that's like kind
of what everyone did
but Pedro and I got assigned to the same
group all the odds of that are
astounding in my
opinion
and we got assigned with two other
people that don't really matter right
now they're chill they're a chill but
like they're not important to the story
um so we're four four of
us and
we decided [__] it we're not going to do
a cover song we're not going to do a
poem we're going to make a full [__]
EP of originally recorded music for this
[__] school
project mind you this is after I release
No Matter What so that's like about the
timeline we're at after I released no
matter what but before I released pretty
much everything else
I was just getting into electronic music
and I was learning about hip-hop through
through Pedro so it was like an epic rap
bottles of
History thing that we
made
and we spent like a week recording and
writing these songs
together and it was some of the most fun
I've ever had in my entire life what
what we ended up making was actually dog
[__] like it was
terrible genuinely it was
awful but it was
awesome I one of my most Vivid memories
in my entire life is the process of
making that with
them
and I'm not going to lie I had like
developed a slight crush on Pedro by
that
point but there is there is nothing that
could be done about
that
so it was it was a very immense
experience for
me
um and we we finished the thing and we
went we we went into our our next
history class for our final everyone was
presenting their ship and again everyone
was just like reading their
poems and performing their Gom stuff
style um parody with the American
Revolution and then we present our
thing we were only planning to present
one
song the song we chose out of the four
song EP was the song in the Hudson
Bay
and you to remember I was like [__] up
I had no friends ped was like the first
real friend I ever had
and in that
moment we got a standing
ovation from the entire
class and our
teacher a standing
ovation and everyone requested
unanimously to hear the entire
EP we took up so much extra class time
because everyone wanted to hear the
entire EP from start to finish
and
like [__]
hell I I was so Happ it was like 20
minutes long it was a 20 minute long EP
or something
and it was [__] it was terrible but
maybe I'll share it
someday maybe I'll drop on bamp randomly
and please don't think it's my music
now please don't think it's a reflection
of the artist that I am now but
um in that
song the Hudson Bay title
track
um Pedro sang this or wrapped this
really [__] sick ass
hook and it was he he did that show he's
like in the Hudson Bay you know how we
do it and that like that like played
throughout the song several times and I
kid you
not the entire class was reciting that
[__]
after the project was
done like people would people would say
it people would like were were hooked
with
it and like we did that it was so it was
such an important part of my life but
like Pedro is such a [__] genius like
we were kids and
like we we were we had not grown into
being artist just
yet but like you listen to ped's rapping
and even if it's childish and like
amateurish you could hear this
strange visceral
passion in the way he did it I think my
my hard drive is just all
unplugged it's so hot that I think my
hard drives are just freaking out so I
can't play the rest of by the seaside
because my hard drives unplugged
but
um the
EP was called
um the path to
Victory the songs
were let's see if I can remember all the
songs on top of my head there was wake
up there was in the Hudson
Bay there was 100
warships and there was one
more what was the last one
all right I gotta look it
up was it just called the path to
victory was it just called
that it was called the path to Victory
so the track list goes as follows number
one in the Hudson Bay number two 100
warships number three path to Victory
number four wake
up um
this like getting this is this is going
to get kind of personal it's like very
nuanced
but part of um Paradise Valley's purpose
is
like because I was such a [__] loner
and
because I was I struggled so much to
make
friends
that after I
graduated Middle
School I started to like be in the in
the pony community and on the internet
and trying to just make as many friends
as possible like anyone who would give a
[__] about me and anyone who
like encouraged me and cared about me in
some way I just wanted to I wanted to be
friends with
them and as a
result I like found friendships in a lot
of the wrong places
I made friends with a lot of people that
I really shouldn't have been
around and
like i' had been taken advantage of so
much and hurt and abandoned so much all
the while
like in order to like earn the approval
of these like really shitty
people I was like a really [__] toxic
person and like [__] the conest you
can
imagine to try and like maintain these
kinds of
friendships
and I'm never going to like hide from
that I don't want to CU I don't feel
like
it's it's not honest
firstly so let's be
transparent um but it's also really
important to
like know how [__] up I
was so that not only you can or everyone
can look at things like my
stories and realize hey [__] can get
better cuz [__] got better
right but like bad friends and I was a
[__] awful
person um
I was a kid sure but like still [__]
awful um and so Paradise Valley has this
like duality of like Pedro is kind of a
rough around the edges person and in a
way he was like the bad influence friend
like my parents would have been so
worried about but then when you look
back on it compared to everyone I've
been around in my entire life he was the
[__] coolest dude in the whole
[__]
world cuz he was he was rough but he
wasn't evil he wasn't Sinister he was
just tough just a tough
dude and lot of Paradise Valley is being
like God [__] damn it I've been
through all this [__] and like people
like him were always the safe place like
it was always him all
along
so like that's kind of The Duality of
Paradise Valley it's like things got
better and I miss the past but like also
[__] [__] stunk real
bad [__] [__]
sucked
um like I said I don't want to
pretend I've always been the person I am
I don't want to pretend
that there there is a whole side that
[__] really
sucks that I have to live
with and that the people I've been
around have to live
with but like what my thought is is that
I can take that experience I've
had and help
people recognize what they should be
trying to strive for in their own
life because I've [__] been through
it um
I think a great example is
anony I feel like everyone knows that
one um the reason why anonym is so
profound is
because I wanted to make a
song being against the kind of person I
used to be like every thing I reject an
anonym is the person I was
before like let's just be
honest um
I used to be so [__] judgmental about
everything I used to call everything
cringe I used to indulge in all that
[__] it's
like putting people in boxes and like
trying
to make everyone feel lesser I did that
I was that
person so my message is like don't don't
there's a there's there's you can be so
much happier and you can make more
people happy
by choosing a better way to do
things and so I feel like that's the
thesis of the Violet Pony project at
this time is to
like think about everything I've been
through
and trying to help people learn more
about themselves so they can avoid the
pitfalls of so much of the [__] I've
been
through I hope that makes sense Paradise
Valley is a very big step into
that I felt like after cutie marks a lot
of it was just like oh wo is me wo is me
wo is me I've been through all this [__]
I've been through all this bad [__] it's
like after that I was like I don't want
my art to focus on how much I've been
hurt I'm
actually interested in focusing on how
I've also hurt
people and I don't want to hide from it
and I don't want to say this never
happened and I don't want to be like
this is just this is relevant or
whatever I want to say this [__]
happened I want you to look at it I want
you to reckon with it and I want you to
hear me when I say there's a better
[__] way to
live after cue marks is like we can't do
this woe is me [__] all the time it
can't all be about
me cuz like as much as I've been hurt
I've hurt people so let's not let's not
get carried away here you know what I
mean so Paradise Valley is a big step
into that parisel is a big step into
that um girls whoar Wizards uh is
something
else um that's just some that's just me
being nostalgic but
Monarch monarch of monsters which is the
thing I'm working on
now is going to be like the absolute
Peak thesis of what I want to do with my
art
and before I leave stream I want to tell
everyone Monarch is not really intended
for
children and Monarch is going to have a
wall of trigger
warnings I don't want to explain
why I don't want to get into it right
now
but Monarch is going to be one of those
albums that I
think people need to realize is going to
be a tough
one I'm a little like worried about
people's perception of it
because it's it's going to be very
visceral and I don't want to hold back I
want it to
be that part of my
mind and some stuff in it might really
scare people I
think so I just want to warn everyone
about that
like before you listen to
Monarch be kind to yourself
and recognize the importance of this
kind of art I think
CU in my mind it's going to be pretty
brutal um so just be
gentle and just be kind to
yourself I
want with every album I do I want
everyone to go in with a sense of hope
like no matter how intense it gets like
there's a greater hopeful purpose for
everything
Monarch won't feel like it has any hope
in it but there's hopeful reason for
it
so that's
s thanks for sitting with
me let me talk about [__] and listening
to
me and um remembering that by the
seaside is basically just a fortnite
remix and um yeah
that's that's the
end but it's the
beginning but it's the end